Katrina Groves: Number 5226493 217-720-2154
Katrina Groves: PST
Katrina Groves: Tim Howard is next day birth.
Katrina Groves: On 587 he's been in the dark community health center MIT program since August 16 2016 and he is well known to me.
Katrina Groves: Here for history and physical
Katrina Groves: Hey Jim
Hey,
Katrina Groves: How are you, I see your I hear your voice, but I can't see you yet. So you got to click on the video.
Okay.
Katrina Groves: I know it's kind of fun figuring it all out, huh.
Yeah.
Oh,
Katrina Groves: There you are.
Timothy Howard: Hi.
Timothy Howard: Yeah.
Timothy Howard: It's a little bit different, you know, I have to keep up because it doesn't show up right away, you know, on my screen. So I have to tap the screen in order for it to come up and then it might all comes down here on talk to so it's a little bit different. Okay.
Katrina Groves: Where are you calling from
Timothy Howard: My home. Good.
Katrina Groves: Are you in a private place because this might take about 45 minutes to an hour depends on how much we get through.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, I can.
Timothy Howard: It's just me. Yeah, I'll go in the other room, cuz channel for coming here and lay down
Timothy Howard: Yep. See, they all are.
Hi.
Katrina Groves: cutie. Yeah.
Timothy Howard: All right.
Katrina Groves: Excellent. Alright, well thanks for doing this on the middle of your Saturday.
Timothy Howard: You're welcome.
Timothy Howard: Hi. So we went through a pretty quick. It was just, I mean, Tony called and then we did all the paperwork everything right away so we could do it Saturday.
Katrina Groves: That's great. So this is like another kind of intake process just more medical, I just want to start with some basic stuff I've got two computers going at the same time. So you'll see me looking left and right because I got your dark community health center.
Katrina Groves: Opens open to
Katrina Groves: So you've been with in our group, I have down august 16 2016 is that sound about right for your start date.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, does. Okay.
And then
Katrina Groves: You did really, really well for a while.
Katrina Groves: I think you had. How long did you have relapse free two
Timothy Howard: And a half years, three years.
Timothy Howard: Three years. Yeah, little over three years.
Katrina Groves: And then you relapse. It was October, I believe, last year, yet.
Timothy Howard: Right after I lost my job. Yep.
Katrina Groves: Didn't you lose your job because of your relapse. I didn't realize that it was the other way around.
Timothy Howard: Oh no you're right. I started relaxing at the job and then I shortly lost it, like right after you know
Timothy Howard: And then I continued my relapse for. Well, I don't think it's three laps at that point. I think it's going back into my addiction for a minute.
Timothy Howard: And then I got out pretty quickly. Thank God you know didn't last four years, or, you know, so I've been clean
Timothy Howard: Mean Tony signed the contract, stating that I would not use. Did you hear about it. No. No. Okay. It states that I will not use
Timothy Howard: For the time being, while I'm in the program and in bright or I will not use pencils or any other substance, otherwise I would dismiss myself from the program and I've been clean ever since.
Katrina Groves: So, and when did that contract get signed
Timothy Howard: About a month ago.
Timothy Howard: And so I've been clean for over there should be longer than that.
Katrina Groves: Yeah, I've been noticing your labs on from the computer from your drug screens have been better.
Yeah.
Katrina Groves: I'm trying to remember when the last using date was
I don't know.
Timothy Howard: It's been a little while. I haven't been this time, I haven't really been keeping track. You know, I've just been taking it a day at a time and
Timothy Howard: Yeah, it's been a lot better that way I know the contract, you know, really like as a lot of accountability over my head and I'm doing better. You know, I'm taking it slow. I'm looking for other housing right now and I'm looking for work in town, but I'm holding off for the lumber mill until
Timothy Howard: I am more setup in town, you know, and then I'll go back to work, probably for lumber mill.
Katrina Groves: Okay, sounds like a plan. So do you have any allergies to any medication.
Katrina Groves: No, no allergies and medication that you're on right now. But Suboxone you're doing three strips a day. Right.
Katrina Groves: Yeah. And are you still taking Gabba Penton Tim
Katrina Groves: Yes, and is it 600 milligrams for a day or is it different.
Timothy Howard: You know, as for day
Katrina Groves: And the Wellbutrin. Are you back on that thing on that. Yep 300 milligrams
Timothy Howard: Yep.
Timothy Howard: Once only
Timothy Howard: Once a day is
Timothy Howard: That seems to be working. Everything you know I'm I've been, I guess, I guess I've been depressed a lot more lately, you know, just
Timothy Howard: From now. And, you know, fill in everything out like audition and done what I did. You know, I should ask for help when
Timothy Howard: Because I had a friend the lumber mill that asked me if I was okay, you know, Mike. He was in the auction house with me and it kind of took it like
Timothy Howard: Yeah, why wouldn't I be but really I wasn't okay, you know, that was the starting of it. You know, I was really like messed up inside and I was trying to hide it and
Timothy Howard: lead lead to relapse. Yeah.
Katrina Groves: I mean, that's what our minds do is like hiding things and isolating it and
Katrina Groves: The good thing about it is that now you know your mind and when this if this ever happens again as far as the behavior, you're going to catch it and go, oh, I don't want to go down this road.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, I don't know, it's, it's scary. You know, because, because what my addiction does you know as it goes to the max of where I just want to die, you know,
Timothy Howard: I don't, I really don't want to die i want to i i love my life, you know, and I really want to see myself continue on this road that I'm on, now you know I'm gained a lot of way.
Timothy Howard: Away 210 pounds.
Timothy Howard: Hmm.
Katrina Groves: Probably healthier than what you were
Timothy Howard: There, you know, but I feel so like, Oh, it's so heavy, you know,
Timothy Howard: Yeah yeah
Katrina Groves: That's hard. It'll take time to to work your way down.
Timothy Howard: Yeah. Yeah. Whoa.
Katrina Groves: But the most important thing is just to stay clean for now.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, stay clean and I mean as soon as they go back to work off the now you know yeah yeah so
Katrina Groves: Any other medication. Do you take an approximate still or something for pain ibuprofen and Tylenol.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, I take Tylenol and I take the naproxen just hearing it and miss with the headaches, so
Timothy Howard: I'm gabapentin I've noticed the work with the headaches as well.
Timothy Howard: Mm hmm. Yeah, they do.
Katrina Groves: So on your diagnosis to you. You have depression. You've abused Benz's in the past. But right now, you're not on any Bezos
Timothy Howard: No, no.
Timothy Howard: That's good. I'm not on anything that I'm not prescribed
Katrina Groves: Wow, not even marijuana
Timothy Howard: Not even marijuana no more.
Katrina Groves: Oh my gosh. When did you quit that
Um,
Timothy Howard: It's been probably a month. Yeah, at least a month.
Timothy Howard: Wow. Yeah.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, my mindset is coming back. Dr. Girls. It's like coming back the way it used to be, you know, the way I talked way I present myself the way I do things you know it's it's coming all back. So it's like, Yes, finally. I'm there. You know, I want to
Timothy Howard: Just keep it slow. Keep doing good. Keep going to my groups, you know, just stay good you know and I know, make it
Katrina Groves: Good. I'm smoking cigarettes. Still, yes. Okay. Sorry, I'm just going through everything. And there was something on your chart about maybe add, I don't know if that
Katrina Groves: Yeah, applies to you or not.
Timothy Howard: It does, because I have racing thoughts. I don't know when to slow down, you know, and like I find myself trying to control it and I can you know so
Timothy Howard: You, you, you, you said it might be slight slightly, but I mean, I don't know, I just
Timothy Howard: Think this is me, you know, maybe had to do it. My past may, you know, I don't know. I know how I feel. But I know how I think and
Timothy Howard: It's a, it's a lot of work, you know, feels like a over exert myself and no matter what I do. I over exert myself to like if it comes to work or what, no matter what I'm doing. I over exert myself and I mean
Timothy Howard: It could be a good thing and it could be a really, really bad thing, you know.
Katrina Groves: It's like you don't have a middle speed, it's like all or nothing.
Timothy Howard: Yes, yes it is.
Katrina Groves: With. Um, it's, it's, I'm shit or I'm perfection.
Right.
Katrina Groves: And it's like, I don't work at all. I'm lazy or I I kill myself at my job.
Timothy Howard: Yes. Yeah, but you know, I'm trying to be different with that, you know, I'm trying to take things slowly and I know I have to. I was doing. I have an appointment with George for counseling. He thinks, because I had a really bad car accident on in January 7 rumors.
Timothy Howard: That yeah
Timothy Howard: And I was talking to him about it and he said he thinks some kind of trauma could have happened with that as well. So he said he really wants to talk to me because how I found it was like
Timothy Howard: I'm letting it affect me too as well so
Timothy Howard: I don't know.
Katrina Groves: Yeah, now you do know.
Katrina Groves: I have to catch you. Every time you say that because people in recovery. You say that all the time like
Katrina Groves: They say whatever done it. I did a really good insight and then they say, oh, I don't know, like you just dissed your whole self.
Timothy Howard: Yeah.
Katrina Groves: Which is not true. What you said is all that's true. So you gotta catch yourself when you say I don't know cuz you do not
Timothy Howard: Yeah, it's just, it's just with the car accident. I don't see how I mean I don't
Timothy Howard: See how it's affecting me that bad, though, you know, like, I mean, I still feel like I want to draw. I still feel like I want a vehicle, you know, good.
Timothy Howard: But I guess they, how are you saying like we I almost could have died, I need to leave it at that. I didn't die, you know, and I didn't kill someone else, you know, so it's just a scary thing.
Katrina Groves: And I think it goes back to what we call it ace.
Katrina Groves: Adverse Childhood events.
Katrina Groves: You have some PTSD because of your neglect of your parents have their drug abuse in front of you of the violence that you saw as a kid and all that.
Katrina Groves: Is causes post traumatic stress and it gets triggered by things like car accidents. So, so, stuff like that. If you don't deal with it, then it can fester. You know,
Timothy Howard: Inside. Okay.
Katrina Groves: So I would think that would be good for you to any, any kind of counseling, you can get. Go for it.
Timothy Howard: I will
Katrina Groves: So now I'm kind of switch gears to kind of talking about your family.
Katrina Groves: Family history, your mother is
Katrina Groves: Know your
Timothy Howard: Yeah deceased. She's gone. She was an addict as well alcoholic. She died from cirrhosis.
Timothy Howard: I couldn't be there. I was locked up around the time she passed away. So some other things, you know, that's still bugging me till today but I talked about that, you know,
Katrina Groves: And your father.
Timothy Howard: He's still an active addiction.
Timothy Howard: He has also use my whole life and has been incarcerated, my whole life. You know, in and out of prison, you know,
Timothy Howard: He still tries to come around every so often, but I I try not to keep it for too long. You know, it's just like a high love you and by type thing, because he's someone I've used with. And so it's not a good ratio so
Timothy Howard: He's getting mad at me again because of what I'm doing but it's, it's something I know I have to do.
Katrina Groves: Okay and I'm siblings brothers, sisters,
Timothy Howard: Yes, my brother sister or brother Kevin and my sister Donna, you know, Donna any new Heaven, I think, you know, Kevin.
Katrina Groves: And so tell me what there.
Timothy Howard: They have any normal
Katrina Groves: Substance abuse still
Timothy Howard: Yes, my whole family besides my grandparents. Yeah.
Katrina Groves: Yeah. And, um, any medical problems they have as far as you know like high blood pressure, diabetes strokes.
Timothy Howard: And yeah, my grandmother and my grandfather have congestive heart failure. They both have high blood pressure, you know, they have
Timothy Howard: My grandma has really bad arthritis.
Timothy Howard: Well, so she have she has a lot of things wrong with her.
Timothy Howard: Deteriorating deaths in her back. You know, I guess, I guess it comes with the old age. I don't know.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, I was when I was 16 I remember going in for an X ray and they said I had spinal bifida, something that was very minor
Timothy Howard: Hmm, I don't think I've ever had an X ray. Do you guys to check up on or anything, but maybe I should. Hmm.
Katrina Groves: So spinal bifida is just a mild congenital condition like say you're born with a mobile somewhere. It's, it's just an area in your backbone that doesn't completely fuse it doesn't necessarily hurt.
Katrina Groves: But you know you're prone to be getting back pain like the rest of us are more so when you're working so hard.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, I've noticed, I mean, it seems, it seems like since I've stopped working. I
Timothy Howard: Mean my body. I guess I've been at my body. I mean, I've noticed, like a whole lower back my legs. Everything is just, I mean, I've always had like that restless leg syndrome and stuff, you know, but it's gotten so much worse so much bad you know it's going bad.
Katrina Groves: Huh. So since we're talking about physical stuff. I'm going to go through kind of a review systems from head to toe. So I'm just these things are in the past week or so, not your whole life.
Katrina Groves: And just say yes or no. If you've had them. Do you have any Fevers or chills right now. Like, are you sick from something
Katrina Groves: No good any night sweats, or heat or cold intolerance.
Katrina Groves: No any fatigue.
Katrina Groves: Yeah, sleep, you feel tired.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, I've been feeling tired.
Katrina Groves: Do you fall asleep during the day, like have to take naps are all
Katrina Groves: Your soup.
Katrina Groves: Or anything
Timothy Howard: To know but I've been noticing in the morning time I've been doing that, like fall asleep, you know, not wanting to get up, you know,
Okay.
Katrina Groves: And you've had weight gain that you didn't really like but not weight loss.
Timothy Howard: Right, weight gain. Yes.
Katrina Groves: And have you felt any signs of diabetes like being thirsty all the time and peeing all the time.
Katrina Groves: And hungry all the time.
Timothy Howard: I'm hungry all the time. And I've been seeing a lot to okay so
Katrina Groves: You know, get shocked. Put it on your list of things to do as you get unhealthy diabetes might run in your family. You might just never know because people
Katrina Groves: You know, most people in your family. I didn't go doctors much. Yeah.
Katrina Groves: You might not know the whole history. If you're paying a lot and you've gained weight and you're hungry, a lot. I mean, it could be just depression and all that, but you want to get checked for diabetes there.
Katrina Groves: Any changes in your vision like blurry vision or double vision or
Timothy Howard: Pain.
Timothy Howard: In your eyes. No.
Katrina Groves: Redness tearing
Katrina Groves: Know, and for your ears. Any trouble hearing or pain or drainage.
Timothy Howard: I'm hearing. I noticed my hearing is like
Timothy Howard: Hitting mass you don't notice about having be like, Oh, what a lot like what, and I can't understand are here, but I've had like a test from OSHA every year at the lumber mill.
Timothy Howard: And has he
Timothy Howard: has decreased. So, yeah.
Katrina Groves: You do wear earrings here hearing protection when you were
Word.
Timothy Howard: Yes, we do. What they still check her ears are they were checking our ears every year and it was still decreases. So
Timothy Howard: Yeah.
Timothy Howard: I mean,
Katrina Groves: No loud music for you.
Katrina Groves: Update. So, but no pain or drainage and your ears.
Katrina Groves: Know, so as far as know sinuses. Do you have any congestion right now drainage allergies. No. Okay. Any sores in your town or your lips are your gums are your teeth.
Timothy Howard: Nope. All my teeth or bad
Katrina Groves: Teeth or bad idea.
Timothy Howard: As close as they really bad so
Timothy Howard: What's your
Katrina Groves: Plan for that.
Timothy Howard: I have to know that I have a medical again I want to
Timothy Howard: We're thinking about going to a maybe a dentist down in Humboldt County area since it's so forth here.
Timothy Howard: Okay, but right now. Yeah. But right now I haven't had like any more abscess or anything going on in my teeth so
Timothy Howard: If it does happen again. Then I'm gonna go in early in the morning and be seen like I have before or, you know, I had work done on these by doing that when when he referred me last time they ended up doing surgery on on the side of my mouth so
Katrina Groves: There's a dentist in town and her name, I believe, is dr are she, she's married to the
Katrina Groves: Somebody in politics. I can't remember his name right now. She used to work at the donor community health center when it was on a street and she does do
Katrina Groves: Trying to think she's she takes clients from the clinic. If you tell her you know Dr. Gross referred me. She might see you
Katrina Groves: But
Katrina Groves: Remember that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure latrines now's the time to go get an appointment and get seen while your teeth are not inflamed because then you're established and then they can start working on
Timothy Howard: fixing them up. Don't
Katrina Groves: Wait till you get an infection.
Timothy Howard: Okay, so I can do that right away. I mean, it's not like I'm not really much going on. I mean, I gotta, you
Katrina Groves: Gotta just
Timothy Howard: Yeah. We just got our head and stuff. So we are we are looking for in house. So, I mean, we're trying to make
Timothy Howard: That we are trying to move back the Crescent City.
Katrina Groves: I think town would be better for you as far as what transportation and just
Timothy Howard: Translate.
Timothy Howard: Transportation going to group Malaya school all of it all the way around and plant. All of it is too far, all the way up here. We can't do anything, you know,
Katrina Groves: You can do that when you're retired and, you know, hanging out by the river. When you're 90 okay but I
Katrina Groves: Need to be in town.
Timothy Howard: I know I do.
Katrina Groves: Alright, so going back to ear, nose and throat. We got stuck on teeth. Any trouble was swallowing your food or choking on food.
Timothy Howard: No. Okay.
Katrina Groves: I'm getting into your neck. Do you have any lumps in your neck like you know how you swell up when you get infections.
Katrina Groves: No, no good. Do you have pain or stiffness in your neck.
Timothy Howard: No, not in my neck, just in my lower back.
Okay.
Katrina Groves: trouble breathing with your coffee wheezing.
Katrina Groves: Shortness of breath.
Timothy Howard: No.
Timothy Howard: No asthma. No.
Katrina Groves: I'm down to your heart, do you have chest pain, palpitations chest pressure
Timothy Howard: Know, every once in a while, I might have like a palpitation here and there, you know, but I have any regular RV.
Timothy Howard: That could come with caffeine to consumption, because I can't. I mean, I know I can. I just don't want to. Okay. When is that is that caffeine or the energy drinks. I've only shutting down one energy drink the day though so good.
Katrina Groves: So the energy drink have sugar in it as well.
Timothy Howard: Yes, absolutely. And I guess I
Mean
Katrina Groves: You'd almost be better off just drinking black coffee or coffee with a sweetener in it. That's not an artificial sweetener, because that way you can still get your one energy without
Katrina Groves: The weight gain and the sugar in the diabetes and all that. So that's the first step is for people to kind of switch to
Katrina Groves: Not to decaf but just take get the sugar out because one of those lattes and mochas is like your whole days calories right there.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, I know. Yeah. And I've gained. It's going great. It's almost like a pound a day. I swear like God quit eating you fatty
Katrina Groves: I know, but that's what you're, you don't have your drug right now. So your, your body's craving something right you and Tony talked about this. It's like you crave sugar you crave sex mean, it'd be better to have sex all day long, rather than eating sugar.
Timothy Howard: Yeah.
Timothy Howard: I want to eat sugar and when he food. It's like, oh, I see. So good. And then like being born on top of it, you know, and not working as a lot to do with that too. So that's true. Yeah.
Katrina Groves: Okay, so, um, heart. Oh, so you don't have any swelling of your legs, though, they're not puffing up
Timothy Howard: No, not popping up.
Katrina Groves: And you don't get do you get short of breath when you're trying to walk because you're out of shape or do you feel like you're short of breath.
Timothy Howard: No, just like when I run i mean i i guess everyone does. But I've noticed I could run far distance. But now, like I had to run from
Timothy Howard: The bus stop to Walmart and I was so out of breath. It's like I had heard and render and get back in time for the bus, you know, and I would die. And I was like, wait, and I was like oh so
Timothy Howard: Yeah.
Katrina Groves: That will come back, you're young.
Katrina Groves: So what about any skin problems I'm dry skin itchy skin rashes mole.
Timothy Howard: I do have, I have psoriasis on my elbows.
Katrina Groves: Oh, I didn't know that. Yeah, so
Katrina Groves: Is that the only place you have the psoriasis.
Timothy Howard: Yes. Oh, you're lucky. Yeah.
Katrina Groves: I'm stomach. Do you have heartburn issues, abdominal pain.
Timothy Howard: And no
Katrina Groves: Nausea, vomiting,
Timothy Howard: No, not now.
Katrina Groves: Not now. Did you
Timothy Howard: Know, yeah, I was getting really like seeing like maybe a week ago was getting really sick. I'm throwing up nauseous in the morning. I don't know what the hell it was but it's gone now. Good.
Katrina Groves: constipation, diarrhea,
Timothy Howard: Know, I've been gone to the bathroom.
Timothy Howard: It's been regular now once a day.
Katrina Groves: Suboxone doesn't make you constipated.
Timothy Howard: Know, as it
Katrina Groves: Okay, and no bleeding in your stool at all like red blood when you poop or
Timothy Howard: Anything like that. Good.
Katrina Groves: And how about urination. Are you having any trouble with burning when you pay or your urine stream sort of stopping and starting
Timothy Howard: No, it's just a lot. And then there's been pressure so
Timothy Howard: I've been having a lot of pressure and and inside, you know, and it's causing me to have to pee. It's like, I almost can't hold my pee and I went to see Dustin
Timothy Howard: And he did give me antibiotics. He gave me a mock Sicilian, and then it was a high dose of amoxicillin and it had something else with it.
Katrina Groves: It's augmented so it's like amoxicillin clubby organic acid, but I wonder. Let's see what he did. Oh, we talked about your back pain, too.
Yeah.
Katrina Groves: I'm Kevin Penton
Katrina Groves: So yeah that's that's concerning to as far as diabetes because people
Katrina Groves: When you have a ton of sugar in your system, your body's trying to get rid of the sugar. So how does it get rid of it at peace it out. So, you know, drink it sounds silly but drink water.
Katrina Groves: Every. Am I losing you my computers and weird stuff.
Timothy Howard: I still see you
Okay.
Katrina Groves: It's important to drink enough water to get that sugar out and and you should get checked for diabetes, basically.
Timothy Howard: Okay. All right.
Katrina Groves: Um, okay. So back to your bones and stuff. Your, your back is a problem but your
Katrina Groves: Power your knees, your ankles, your elbows are shoulders.
Timothy Howard: They sing. Good. It's just, it's just stiffness and like my, my back and then the restless leg syndrome and my legs, you know, like probably my nerves and stuff too. Like they get it gets really bad, bad girls.
Katrina Groves: So the Gabba pension is good for restless legs.
Timothy Howard: I think you're on the right is
Timothy Howard: It has been a miracle that stuff has been helping me. You know, I take two in the morning and then to at night and
Katrina Groves: Check with Dustin and increase it to three at night. If that helps more with your legs and evening.
Timothy Howard: Okay yeah cuz I do wake up and I sometimes early in the morning and I'm back at it again. You know, it's not going away.
Katrina Groves: Right. There's also other medications that you can add on top of it to help. So okay, so I'll put that down. You want to follow up on that one.
Katrina Groves: neurologically though you've never had a seizure. As far as, you know,
Unless it was an overdose.
Timothy Howard: Yeah.
Timothy Howard: No tremors. No, no.
Katrina Groves: No fainting or dizzy spells.
Timothy Howard: Know, just the concussion. I had
Timothy Howard: When I after I had to rack what seemed like after the week I was really
Timothy Howard: really messed up dizzy like painting like it really hurt me, you know, and now I feel a lot better. I mean, I feel, way better. Yeah.
Katrina Groves: Yeah, you're I remember that your brain kind of gets shaken up one, literally. All right.
Katrina Groves: And as far as your
Katrina Groves: Bless you, your depression. Do you feel that's interfering with your life.
Timothy Howard: And
Katrina Groves: The sadness or is it getting better or the Wellbutrin working
Timothy Howard: There will be a chain. It does. It does help. But, I mean, I might need a higher dose, because I've noticed that it i'm still depressed, you know,
Katrina Groves: Do you feel, how does your depression manifest itself. Do you feel like hopeless worthless.
Katrina Groves: Not being able to not a bad
Timothy Howard: Of course, worthless no good. You know, like, but i know i i'm not none of those things. I know this, you know, but I do feel like that, you know,
Katrina Groves: It. So how do you counter your, your negative self talk. What do you do
Timothy Howard: I usually I'll go outside and I'll tell myself that you know I'm worth it. You've came so far. Look at what you've accomplished. You know, I think all these things, you know, they all go to my head, but then it'll all be okay. And it'll happen again. You know, yeah, so like
Katrina Groves: It just gets longer between times. You know when you when you fight it like that, it, it, it goes away. It just takes time. Like everything else.
Katrina Groves: Yeah, I know, I know you know any suicidal ideation at all.
Katrina Groves: Feeling like you want to die. No, no, um, any bruising anemia or anything like that.
Nope.
Alrighty.
Katrina Groves: Um,
Katrina Groves: What am I missing here. Oh, I guess I need to go back to the beginning. And I know I've heard this before but not with bright heart. Um, what age were you when you first started using any substance at all.
Katrina Groves: And that substance was pot.
Timothy Howard: I'm not well yeah pot and then it started off with pills.
Timothy Howard: Well, I guess, alcohol. Yeah, but I mean, I mean it's a drug to so I'll call you know I've messed around with that was a young age, and then it progressed to pills and then it progressed to
Timothy Howard: Heroin and then from heroin to other drugs, you know,
Timothy Howard: Speed
Timothy Howard: And hallucinogenic stuff like that but I never got into the others, that was just experimental the heroin is what really stuck.
Katrina Groves: Yeah.
Katrina Groves: And did you spend time in jail or have any legal issues, early on.
Katrina Groves: Do juvenile hall or
Timothy Howard: Oh yeah I did go to jail when i was i think 17 or 16 when I was younger, I got arrested for cultivation.
Timothy Howard: For what cultivation, I had a big old farm going in my backyard. I got it.
Katrina Groves: Okay, gotcha.
Katrina Groves: And was. Were you working at that time. Did you always work. Did you have a part time job or anything as a kid.
Timothy Howard: I, I, I worked for a part time, place, it was still like trying to think of the program. I think it was called. It was a program to school. It was like, you know, learning how to work and, you know, get some experience and stuff like that. Um, I work for a nursery.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, so that's how I started you know getting all my pop my soil and stuff from was from the nursery. I work that and then I would grow my weed that way and
Katrina Groves: Did you have trouble with work because of your you're using as you got older. Did it cause problems with your job.
Timothy Howard: Oh, yeah.
Timothy Howard: Trips always, always, causing issue, eventually. Yeah. Except for
Timothy Howard: Well, I wasn't using it on that time so that doesn't count the job. I ended up getting when I was 20
Timothy Howard: It was 24 so I just stopped using and I was clean for almost a year and I worked for Sun Valley and
Timothy Howard: I did that pretty well for a little while. That's like rats. I lost my kids. I was like, when I was going through the proper you reunification process to get my children back, you know, and then I
Timothy Howard: Didn't work out, I got sick really bad. And then I lost my kids. And then I moved back up here and then that's when I started getting back in the math really bad and heroin and it progressed, all the way up till the age of 29 or 30 when I got into Suboxone program.
Katrina Groves: And so you've been able to get clean a couple times yourself.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, but it. No, not really. I've tried it just never lasted that long. You know, like, one time was nine months, but there was always like me going to the doctor and getting prescribed medication. So it didn't really count. You know, I was getting pills pills.
Timothy Howard: I know
Katrina Groves: You just walk on the street.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, I just, I was prescribed and they couldn't do nothing to me at the time, you know, so it was like it was it was always a battle to like
Timothy Howard: With my counselors and stuff like that, during the time they're always fighting with me, telling me they knew what I was doing. Oh, that they were going to catch me and
Timothy Howard: Well, yeah.
Timothy Howard: It's better that you know it's better this way and this program has helped me tremendously. You know that it has changed my whole life around. I mean, I've done other folks. I've done other programs. You know, I've went to an inpatient program called
Timothy Howard: Oh, I can't think of the name of it was called. It's the one off in Eureka crossroads.
Timothy Howard: Right.
Timothy Howard: And then I ended up doing another couple of programs you know through
Timothy Howard: Through the courts. It was called prop 36 actually completing that program. I did complete that program and but I still was using prescription drugs at the time. So they still didn't count it, you know. So I was able to complete the program.
Katrina Groves: Oh, yeah.
Katrina Groves: All right, and so what coping skills do you have now like moving forward. What makes it better.
Timothy Howard: Um,
Katrina Groves: You said walking
Timothy Howard: Walking with driving usually would do a to, like, just get now working with do it, you know, cooking skills right and like are you talking about, like right now.
Timothy Howard: Yeah. So walking going to group.
Timothy Howard: I call my friend, Mike, you know, he usually helps to sometimes it's actually a really good support person you know he is
Timothy Howard: So I'm huh
Katrina Groves: I said, That's excellent.
Timothy Howard: Okay, yeah, it's, um, it's there for not having the car, you know, it's a lot harder. You know, for me, and I still make it work, though no matter what I'm determined
Katrina Groves: When are you going to get your car back a car any car.
Timothy Howard: I'm hoping
Timothy Howard: In the next month. So we have a settlement income coming in. So we're going to use all that money to get like a really decent car and movement. And as we're moving and we're hoping to get put into town before we get the car, you know, so we have a place already
Timothy Howard: But if not,
Timothy Howard: Then we're going to use the money to do both to do both things.
Timothy Howard: Good. So, and
Katrina Groves: What made you not want to go back to a one point you wanted to go back to the clean and sober house or you were thinking that was an option.
Timothy Howard: It was an option.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, they wouldn't let me come back because this is the third, the second time that I left, as you know,
Timothy Howard: before my time was up, you know, so I left a little bit too early. I, I signed a contract stating I at least stay there a certain amount of time. And I, and I just didn't do that. So,
Katrina Groves: That's too bad.
Timothy Howard: So yeah, now they won't let me come back there.
Okay.
Timothy Howard: I know
Timothy Howard: I'm making it work. Things are going a lot better.
Katrina Groves: I you are
Timothy Howard: Yes. Yeah. And we're both doing good. She's doing Shannon's doing very well as well so
Katrina Groves: I'm happy to hear that because she's taking Suboxone through Dr bets are bad.
Timothy Howard: Yeah.
Katrina Groves: All right, and drinking and kind of backtracking, you're not drinking now.
Timothy Howard: ARE YOU ARE ALL I DID HAVE I did have some wine. Just recently, like
Timothy Howard: I think it was a few days like maybe a week ago.
Timothy Howard: Okay, I did drink some wine.
Katrina Groves: And did that make you feel like really good, like, oh, I want to do that again.
Timothy Howard: No, it didn't. Actually, it's like a it was with a lot of actually I just didn't want to do it again because there's too many people over. We had some other people that were
Timothy Howard: Actually Shannon's friends someone that's been in the right that's in the right heart program, you know, so they all came over, we ate dinner. They had their kids over
Timothy Howard: And we all ended up getting some wine and drinking it and sending on a front porch, and then also I kind of stressed out a little bit, you know. So I guess I'm not used to having so many people like that around and kids running around my house. You know, so
Timothy Howard: Right, find overwhelming. So I was like, I don't want to do that again. So even without cause it's just, it's not really my thing. It doesn't do doesn't do for me what the other stuff. I would normally crave for like the heroin and the pills, you know, right.
Katrina Groves: Although, you have to look at that and say well, gee, if I feel like I need a drug to get through this social situation and is this really a kind of social situation I should be doing, you know, having those people so
Katrina Groves: Have you and Shannon
Katrina Groves: Talked about it again.
Timothy Howard: No, no, because it wasn't like that, it was, it was just like
Timothy Howard: We all were having a good time and
Timothy Howard: Everyone just came up with the idea of the Cisco, get some mine so
Timothy Howard: And I drink with them. Yeah. So it's just
Timothy Howard: Some. I don't know. So it was there and I think mine. I was like, I didn't think it was a big deal because I normally don't drink, but
Timothy Howard: Yeah, I just look at it and be you know i i'm aware of it. Okay.
Katrina Groves: It doesn't go well with Suboxone when you drink. That's the only thing
So,
Katrina Groves: Um,
Katrina Groves: Okay, what else
Katrina Groves: Any surgeries that you've had. Tim like appendix or tonsils or
Timothy Howard: Yes, I had my opinion it's taken out when I was 12 okay
Katrina Groves: That is that it
Katrina Groves: No gallbladder surgery now shoulder surgery. No other
Timothy Howard: No. Oh, no, no. I had that was a procedure that wasn't a surgery I had when I had those access to my hip joint.
Timothy Howard: They did something I can't do it. They stuck a needle in my back and then
Timothy Howard: Split that was
Timothy Howard: What was called a pic line, but that was a surgery. It's like a procedure.
Katrina Groves: Okay, yeah, I'd forgotten about that. How, how you got the abscess in your hips, was that shooting up
Timothy Howard: No, I was clean. During that all the doctors that did it. There was a team of doctors. They don't know how it happened. They said that they think it could have been from my past history and it was caught up with me. I'm at the time I was playing. I was losing so
Timothy Howard: Weird. Yeah, I don't know. This is just probably developed over time. And then eventually, after they got so big it caused a blood infection and caused
Timothy Howard: Said, almost, almost a bone infection, what they were looking at. So
Katrina Groves: Yeah, like osteomyelitis or something like that.
Timothy Howard: It was a weird name to it, but I know it was very serious and I was in the hospital for a very long time. Okay.
Katrina Groves: Okay, so you're Suboxone. How much do you have left, or do you have
Timothy Howard: My script is due on Tuesday. I MEAN, I'M TONY We're talking about it and we were going to ask you to sequence I signed the contract and that it's so hard for me on Skype day i when i by the time I get the script.
Timothy Howard: I end up missing my bus and I always have to wait like five o'clock to catch the bus to come home, you know, so you can talk to Tony before you do it, but I was
Timothy Howard: And I signed the contract stating, I can't use anymore. So if I do, I'm gone from the program, you know, so I was going to see if I could have my my script back you know it'd be a lot easier. I mean, it'd be up to you and her. You can talk to her beforehand.
Katrina Groves: I, are you wanting monthly then or every other week you're getting it every week. Now, right.
Timothy Howard: I'm getting every week. Yeah. Okay, so
Katrina Groves: Other it's that's fine with me because you get other medications as well. And I kind of worry about having more than a certain number of prescriptions. Your you jeopardize your, your partnership only accept so many. I think
Timothy Howard: Okay. Every, every two weeks. I mean, whatever.
Timothy Howard: You think is best, you know, and
Katrina Groves: I think if you're compliant will do monthly and then if you mess up, and no
Katrina Groves: But I am
Timothy Howard: I'm gone. If I messed up. So
Timothy Howard: I don't want, I can't mess up.
Katrina Groves: And I don't want to write
Katrina Groves: I don't want the prescription to be held over your head. So, you know,
Katrina Groves: You got it. You just make it two groups. So are you able to come. Are you working right now at all.
Timothy Howard: No, I was no it's over with. Now, I was doing like side work where I was leaving with a private contractor and we were going up to cave junction and working that's over now.
Timothy Howard: I was trying to get back to it but it. The guy said that he would get ahold of me if he needed more help. So that kind of gives me a sign of saying it's over, you know,
Katrina Groves: Okay, what about once you working at Burger King or as fast food restaurant. What happened with that.
Timothy Howard: Talk about, um, they didn't want to pay for some I gotten a big argument with the boss there because he didn't pay me what I worked for. So yeah, things are really, really heated and I took my talk to girls I messed up. This is why I could I could get in trouble. I took my money from him.
Katrina Groves: Oh, Tony told me about that.
Timothy Howard: Yes, I went in there and took my money.
Katrina Groves: That sounds kind of unlike you, I mean to be so angry and
Timothy Howard: Yeah, but I was on. I was on Xanax at the time as well.
Katrina Groves: There you go. That explains it.
Timothy Howard: I was under the influence.
Timothy Howard: Yeah. Wow. And again, I've been very angry to like
Timothy Howard: I could do this when Shannon and me in the room, you know, next time when I see you
Timothy Howard: I was gonna, I was going to show you the damage that I did that I had to repair on the house like
Timothy Howard: Just me sitting around and like I've know where I get so angry and I'll just destroy my stuff like, Wow, a holes in the walls rip the doors off the walls, I very rarely, but you can still see like where I repaired it you know
Katrina Groves: So is that when you're using the Benz's
Timothy Howard: Know that's even less now.
Timothy Howard: Yes.
Katrina Groves: And where do you think that
Katrina Groves: Anger is
Timothy Howard: Coming from angry anxiety. Like, I'll start crying like I don't know but i i know i know i can't use, you know, no matter what, you know, so
Timothy Howard: This program means so much to me. You know, it really does. So it's like normal, I guess. Normally I probably went out and got the bends those, you know, but I can't you know you're
Katrina Groves: Going, some of this is benzo withdrawal to Tim is like you're going through withdrawals of your benzo you gone through withdrawals of the pie, you're going through withdrawals of everything at once so
Timothy Howard: But it's been a long time you know it's been a long since I've used, you know, it's
Timothy Howard: almost a month and a half and was too old, two months, probably
Katrina Groves: In the cosmic dimensions of your brain. That's a very small amount of time, like you're
Katrina Groves: You're going to need
Katrina Groves: A year, six months, at least to start feeling like more normal
Timothy Howard: Yeah, it doesn't it doesn't seem like I used out long and and prior to that I had over three years, clean, you know, so it was like, it feels like I would
Timothy Howard: I mean I feel like I'm getting better, but but then I still have these like anger issues, but I guess a lot of things get brought up to, you know, like I get
Timothy Howard: Angry over my sister or get angry over my past relationship, you know, or, you know, I have these I've been having like really, really bad dreams like last night wasn't as bad as they
Timothy Howard: It was a weird, weird dream, but the so vivid, you know, and last night, I didn't get angry or nothing but the night terrors. I have, you know, like the ones
Timothy Howard: They're really bad to talk about, but they're really that, you know, so I've been having those a lot too. And I get really angry over those. Yeah.
Katrina Groves: So anger is usually a sign that you're having a lot of fear.
Timothy Howard: Emotional I mean I'm emotional to know
Katrina Groves: That's okay because you've been blocking your emotion. So I think it's really good to get in some counseling, not just with Tony. But if she hadn't you go with one like
Katrina Groves: Greg is that his name.
Timothy Howard: Great, great guy does actually Dustin he proved. He's the one that referred me to break Dustin did and stuff like I haven't even really
Timothy Howard: Brought up with Tony or anyone yet you you're my doctor, so I'll bring it up with you, you know, but I don't know I just
Timothy Howard: Things I don't want to talk about and group, I guess, but I'm going to have to, you know, it's things I need to throw out there. I mean, Shannon knows about it. You know, I've talked with her about it. I've cried with her about it, you know.
Katrina Groves: Like being abused and
Timothy Howard: Yeah yeah yeah it's it's like really, really hard. You know, it's
Timothy Howard: Yeah, just over my life I've been through a lot or my life, you know, there's things. Some things I don't talk enough about like that. I have stuffed down, you know, even
Timothy Howard: Even getting through my three years, clean, you know, like these are things I haven't worked on that. I should have worked on. So there's a lot of things of why these relapses could have happened, you know, and now I know why. Now I know why.
Katrina Groves: Exactly. And now you know that you can work through it and no you don't have
Katrina Groves: To say stuff in the middle of group. I mean, if, if you're here and telemedicine and there's all these people and
Katrina Groves: If you're not comfortable sharing something, then you just wait for your private counselor or you we have something we call breakout groups, you can kind of break out with me individually. If something really bothers you, and come back in. So
Katrina Groves: No, you don't have to say stuff everything in the world. I mean, you know, Casey. He talks about his abuse.
Katrina Groves: And doesn't bother him so
Katrina Groves: You know,
Katrina Groves: It's just, you got to make it work for you and but to know that that you've got that in you and and to have an outlet and to work on that you're exactly right. You will set yourself up for relapse. Again, if you don't deal with this now.
Timothy Howard: Yeah, yeah, it's a lot, a lot of it has to do with me being D and really bad, you know, me and my I feel bad for my younger brother, you know, and my sister even, you know, she loves what she's been through, you know,
Timothy Howard: It is really bad. It's horrific, you know,
Katrina Groves: It is. It's very, it's called adverse childhood events. We call it. It's got a name aceee
Katrina Groves: Adverse Childhood events cause people to have these kind of emotional problems and leads to drug use and I would say probably 99% of the addicts out there have had some sort of
Katrina Groves: Abuse trauma as a child and that could be physical, verbal abandonment, you know, who knows what and and if you address them. That's what lets you free.
Katrina Groves: That's what
Katrina Groves: gets you out of your
Timothy Howard: You know, you know, it's so weird is like the three years that I got through it seemed like like even though how explain explain this. It's like I stuffed those away and almost like, forgot about them for a second there and like started this whole new life, you know,
Timothy Howard: Right. And after this after this relax all of this stuff is coming out like every all this time it's so much heavier. You know, it's like
Timothy Howard: But I do have tools. I don't lose those tools, you know, I know. I'm strong. I'm determined, you know, in the last
Timothy Howard: Things I do need to bring out about, you know, my childhood, me being be and about how I lost my kids how I feel about that. You know, stuff like that. I don't talk much about that. Not enough anyway you know
Katrina Groves: You are now that's that's an important thing.
Katrina Groves: That's good. Yeah. So do you want to try any have I given you praise, a son before it's a
Katrina Groves: It's a nighttime medication for nightmares and for post traumatic stress. It takes nightmares away it's just a blood pressure pill. It's not a benzo it's nothing addicting. Not sure if you're interested in having me prescribe something for sleep like that.
Timothy Howard: Yeah. Well, right now, it would be fine, because if I'm going to do it. I might as well do it now because I'm not, I'm not working right now. You know, I can try it. It might help me, you know. Yeah.
Timothy Howard: We
Katrina Groves: Got those nightmares and those horrific nightmares that that's what we want to stop because your brain is playing the tape and part of it is is good that you're you're more aware of it with your conscious mind so your subconscious is trying to work through it.
Timothy Howard: But
Katrina Groves: You need your needs your sleep too. So I'll just prescribe it for you and just take one at night and see if it helps with the nightmares.
Katrina Groves: Okay um what pharmacy. Are you at
Walmart.
Katrina Groves: And so we'll do your I'll do your Suboxone I'll get that called in
Katrina Groves: I'll probably do it now because
Timothy Howard: When Sunday, Tuesday. Tuesday.
Timothy Howard: Tuesday Tuesdays. When I go pick up my script and is it going to be the months worth
Timothy Howard: Yeah okay and you can you can talk to Tony today. We have already talked about it.
Katrina Groves: I believe you. So I'm, I'm looking at my schedule for your first group and I'm doing groups. Now I'm only doing a Monday nights from 545 till 645 so that works for your schedule now because you don't have a job.
Katrina Groves: Is. Let's see. Monday. I've got 123456 think I got six people. But you could do the ninth, or you could do the 16th.
Timothy Howard: So I'm getting my desk Monday, I will
Timothy Howard: Sort of be in the evening time. I don't know if I'm going to be home around that time though either. I'm going to have, I have caught on the 10th. So it's going to be a really, really busy day Monday I mean I'm I might be able to do it but i'm not i'm not 100% sure
Katrina Groves: I'd rather you if the ninth is a bad day. Then what about the 16th, can you look, you have a calendar for you.
Timothy Howard: ain't doing anything around the 16th. I have the 10th and then
Timothy Howard: I have that I have a court date on the 10th and then I should have enough to coordinate like another month out. So I said, be free to do whatever. OK.
Katrina Groves: So I'll put you down for the 16th, which is a Monday at 545 try to check in at like 530 because there'll be a bunch of other people and they have to do like a little brief check in with you every time so
Timothy Howard: Okay.
Timothy Howard: 530 would be good. Yeah. This time, I think I did it wrong because she said, I went to the waiting room, and then I checked in and then she said,
Timothy Howard: She said something about a brief check in, or whatever, like don't type in my idea wait five minutes before my time, but I just wanted to get back and typed in your meeting and then I waited for like 2025 minutes before so
Katrina Groves: Now,
Katrina Groves: I think you got lost.
Timothy Howard: No, I didn't see the chicken lady talk to her. Yeah. She just told me to.
Timothy Howard: Don't take any idea to like five or 10 minutes before two o'clock. I think is what she said. Maybe I misunderstood or I don't know.
Katrina Groves: I don't know.
Timothy Howard: We're out we're learning. Either way, either way it would work. She says, just that, you know, I would be waiting longer, she said.
Timothy Howard: Okay. Okay, great.
Katrina Groves: Yeah, and so good. I'm glad to see you, that you're okay and give Shannon my best and
Katrina Groves: I will, um,
Timothy Howard: We're strong, you know, we really
Katrina Groves: When you're strong you're strong. Yeah.
Timothy Howard: I know we've been through so much together and where we feel like we're on this.
Timothy Howard: The downhill slope. Now, you know, we're just not downhill or uphill. You know, we're just getting getting better. We're on our way. You know, climbing stairs, you know, good.
Katrina Groves: And it'll help you, you'll get your head, you'll get your car, you know, just baby steps and try to be patient with yourself. And as soon as you can get in with Glenn or Greg, I think. Great.
Timothy Howard: Great George
Timothy Howard: George, George.
Timothy Howard: I like Greg a lot
Timothy Howard: Greg is actually the one that comes in on our Tuesday groups.
Timothy Howard: Right as I'm using as we talk all the time. And like
Timothy Howard: I always smile and the way it has, you know, demeanor is is amazing. He's a good person. I really like
Timothy Howard: Wow, you must do extra work in group leave out on Tuesdays.
Wow.
Timothy Howard: You were there for an hour and a half, minimum, no matter what.
Katrina Groves: That's awesome.
Katrina Groves: So don't forget, get your teeth looked at and get checked for diabetes. That's your two things to do.
Katrina Groves: And I'm, I'm gonna let you go. And I will because I got somebody else f3, so I will see you in a couple weeks. And I'll send your
Timothy Howard: Scripts
Timothy Howard: To Walmart. Thank you.
Timothy Howard: You're welcome, Tim. Take care, you too. Bye bye.
Okay.
Katrina Groves: My usual psych mental status exam is level of stress moderate to severe
Katrina Groves: Least alert and oriented still normal concentration attention span was good.
Katrina Groves: Or fair no evidence of memory shorter long term problems, no motor
Katrina Groves: Psycho motor agitation. I did say anxious, depressed.
Katrina Groves: He did have full expression of feelings. He was well ground.
Katrina Groves: Gained weight since last I saw him speech rather
Katrina Groves: Kind of pressured and a bit rapid at times but good coherence thought processes linear and logical content normal non tangential no hallucinations and delusions.
Katrina Groves: Good insight judgment and self reflection no suicidal ideation.
Katrina Groves: Not employed thus far. I think we went through all the systems review. I'm gonna start them on praises and
Katrina Groves: One milligram at night.
Katrina Groves: Possibly increased to to if needed for PTSD. Oh assessment is opioid dependence and remission severe he had severe opioid dependence in early remission.
Katrina Groves: posttraumatic stress.
Katrina Groves: severe depression moderate to severe needs to increase in his Wellbutrin and he'll talk to his counselor about that or psychiatrist or primary care doc nicotine dependence moderate restless leg syndrome, also benzema benzo dependence in remission. That was
Katrina Groves: Severe
Katrina Groves: And possible add
Katrina Groves: Or just put add, I know I can't do possible is not a diagnosis. So, but it's mild and not needing medication at this time.
Katrina Groves: And I will see him on the six
Katrina Groves: Pause while the next person comes on.
Katrina Groves: So my last one was a no show. That's the end of dictation for today.
I think I did five people.
Katrina Groves: Look forward to talking to you next week.